In this section, we will discuss analyzing the optimal workload composition,
which, simply stated,
is just how will we assign our backlog items into the agile
teams? In the last module, we talked about requirements for
a single product or system, and in this module,
the business unit module, we are talking about broader,
more complex requirements spanning multiple agile teams.
In this situation,
we need to think deeper about assigning user stories to agile teams.
Let's say,
in our business unit, we have our agile team composition of three teams.
One team is on the vehicle order system, another team is supporting two
systems, the order management system and the vehicle allocation system, and a
third team is on the dealer customer support system.
So let's look at an approach to user story assignments.
We need to determine how best to assign our user stories to each of the teams.
Here are our user stories,
and we will need to feed those into a team of teams meeting.
We will assemble the following key participants, the three agile team leaders,
business analysts, product owners, and any others that we deem necessary.
The task of this team at this point is to review user stories,
determine the optimal backlog assignments,
set up ongoing "scrum of scrum" meetings to ensure coordination across teams.
Then the outcome of the meeting, or maybe even more than one meeting,
is the user stories where each color represents a team that the user story
is assigned to, and as new user stories are developed,
the team of teams or the "scrum of scrums" gets together
to coordinate and plan the assignments.
Here you can see the outcome of the meeting.
The orange user stories will be assigned to the vehicle order team, the
blue user stories to the order management and vehicle allocation team, and
the purple to the dealer customer support team.
The outcome of the meeting was a success,
and for ongoing assignments, you'll have a team of teams or a "scrum of
scrums" to continually manage and operate all the user stories coming in
that may be assigned across multiple teams.
In our previous example,
we had existing agile teams and laid out an approach that would work well.
But let's say every existing team is overloaded with work and
we are required to constitute new teams.
How would we do that?
Let's look at three ways we may structure our new teams; user story related,
service related, or a hybrid team. First,
each user story team owns multiple user stories to deliver. This team
focuses on business features and/or user stories.
That is their focus.
The second is each service teams owns multiple services to deliver.
This team focuses on services or components that the
feature or user story teams would consume.
A service team may supply IT infrastructure services, like cloud services,
email, or integration with other backend services,
for example.
Now I have found time and time again that if you split
things like this as I have shown,
there is much less understanding by the service teams
to what the user story teams need.
And I have seen much wasted time integrating the features with backend services.
But I recommend a lot of communication between these two types of teams; the
feature user story team and the service component team.
So, another approach to consider is hybrid.
That is a little of both.
Some teams own multiple user stories and services to deliver. The user
stories will drive the nature and features of the service. Then the team
needs to publish the service and work with the other user story teams to
further enhance each service to meet their needs.
So they have some user stories that initially drive the service offering and
that enhance the service offering to other user story teams.
So, just a thought.
Now let's look at an example.
We have Team 1's backlog.
They are a feature team, and they own multiple features and user stories.
We have Team 2 and its backlog.
They are also a feature team, and they own multiple features and user stories.
And we have Team 3, which is a hybrid team,
which has features and services in its backlog.
Epics are refined into features and user stories,
and the assignments are made following the discussion in the
previous slides where the agile team leaders,
product owners, and business analysts get together to decide who gets what.
Now we have a fourth team,
which is a cloud database service team, S1, that will
provide services to the other three teams,
and their assignments or backlog were also made by the
team of teams. And we have a fifth team,
which is a user interface JavaScript libraries team,
another service team, that would provide services to the
other three teams, and their assignments or backlog were also
made by the team of teams as well.
So we have five teams, two feature teams, two
service teams, and one hybrid team.
This all takes analysis, important analysis, to optimize the development of working software, adding value to the business.